Add ML tutorials (#7180)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/tutorials/rag-conversational-agent.md

## Prerequisite

In this tutorial, you'll build a RAG application, which provides an OpenSearch [k-NN index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/knn/knn-index/) as a knowledge base for a large language model (LLM). For data retrieval, you'll use [semantic search]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/semantic-search/). For a comprehensive semantic search tutorial, see [Neural search tutorial]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/neural-search-tutorial/).

First, you'll need to update cluster settings. If you don't have a dedicated ML node, set `"plugins.ml_commons.only_run_on_ml_node": false`. To avoid triggering a native memory circuit breaker, set `"plugins.ml_commons.native_memory_threshold"` to 100%:

```json
PUT _cluster/settings
{
    "persistent": {
        "plugins.ml_commons.only_run_on_ml_node": false,
        "plugins.ml_commons.native_memory_threshold": 100,
        "plugins.ml_commons.agent_framework_enabled": true
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Step 1: Prepare the knowledge base

> The following steps prepare the knowledge base to supplement an LLM knowledge.

Reviewer: Should "base" follow "knowledge?"

Author: No, this is just the knowledge of the LLM

> The following steps prepare the knowledge base to supplement an LLM knowledge.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the following steps to prepare the knowledge base that will supplement the LLM's knowledge.
```

      },
      "request_body": "{\"prompt\":\"${parameters.prompt}\", \"max_tokens_to_sample\":${parameters.max_tokens_to_sample}, \"temperature\":${parameters.temperature},  \"anthropic_version\":\"${parameters.anthropic_version}\" }"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Note the connector ID; you'll use it to register the model.

### Step 2.2: Register a model

Register the Claude model hosted on Amazon Bedrock:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
    "name": "Bedrock Claude Instant model",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "Bedrock Claude instant-v1 model",
    "connector_id": "your_LLM_connector_id"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Note the LLM model ID; you'll use it in the following steps.

### Step 2.3: Deploy the model

Deploy the Claude model:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_LLM_model_id/_deploy
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 2.4: Test the model

To test the model, send a Predict API request:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_LLM_model_id/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "prompt": "\n\nHuman: how are you? \n\nAssistant:"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Step 3: Register an agent

> OpenSearch provides the following agent types: `flow`, `conversational_flow` and `conversational`. For more information about agents, see [Agents]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/agents-tools/index/#agents).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch provides the following agent types: `flow`, `conversational_flow`, and `conversational`. For more information about agents, see [Agents]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/agents-tools/index/#agents).
```

You will use a `conversational_flow` agent in this tutorial. The agent consists of:

- Meta info: `name`, `type`, and `description`.

> - `app_type`: To differentiate different application types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `app_type`: To differentiate application types.
```

                "index": "test_population_data",
                "embedding_field": "population_description_embedding",
                "source_field": [
                    "population_description"
                ],
                "input": "${parameters.question}"
            }
        },
        {
            "type": "MLModelTool",
            "name": "bedrock_claude_model",
            "description": "A general tool to answer any question",
            "parameters": {
                "model_id": "your_LLM_model_id",
                "prompt": "\n\nHuman:You are a professional data analysist. You will always answer question based on the given context first. If the answer is not directly shown in the context, you will analyze the data and find the answer. If you don't know the answer, just say don't know. \n\nContext:\n${parameters.population_knowledge_base.output:-}\n\n${parameters.chat_history:-}\n\nHuman:${parameters.question}\n\nAssistant:"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

OpenSearch responds with an agent ID:

```json
{
  "agent_id": "fQ75lI0BHcHmo_czdqcJ"
}
```

Note the agent ID; you'll use it in the next step. 

> ## Step 4: Execute the agent

Author: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Run the agent
```

You'll run the agent to analyze the Seattle population increase. When you run this agent, the agent will create a new conversation. Later, you can continue this conversation by asking other questions.

### Step 4.1: Start a new conversation

First, start a new conversation by asking the LLM a question:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
  "parameters": {
    "question": "what's the population increase of Seattle from 2021 to 2023?"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response contains the LLM answer:

Author: ```suggestion
The response contains the answer generated by the LLM:
```

- `message_history_limit`: Specify how many historical messages you want included in the new question/answer round for an agent.
- `prompt`: Use this parameter to customize the LLM prompt. For example, the following example adds a new instruction `always learn useful information from chat history` 
and a new parameter `next_action`:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
  "parameters": {
    "question": "What's the population of New York City in 2023?",
    "next_action": "then compare with Seattle population of 2023",
    "memory_id": "gQ75lI0BHcHmo_cz2acL",
    "message_history_limit": 5,
    "prompt": "\n\nHuman:You are a professional data analysist. You will always answer question based on the given context first. If the answer is not directly shown in the context, you will analyze the data and find the answer. If you don't know the answer, just say don't know. \n\nContext:\n${parameters.population_knowledge_base.output:-}\n\n${parameters.chat_history:-}\n\nHuman:always learn useful information from chat history\nHuman:${parameters.question}, ${parameters.next_action}\n\nAssistant:"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response contains the LLM answer:

Author: ```suggestion
The response contains the answer generated by the LLM:
```

          "name": "memory_id",
          "result": "gQ75lI0BHcHmo_cz2acL"
        },
        {
          "name": "parent_message_id",
          "result": "wQ4JlY0BHcHmo_cz8Kc-"
        },
        {
          "name": "bedrock_claude_model",
          "result": """ Based on the context given:
- The current metro area population of New York City in 2023 is 18,937,000
- The current metro area population of Seattle in 2023 is 3,519,000
- So the population of New York City in 2023 (18,937,000) is much higher than the population of Seattle in 2023 (3,519,000)"""
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

If you know which tool the agent should use to execute a particular Predict API request, you can specify the tool when executing the agent. For example, if you want to translate the preceding answer into Chinese, you don't need to retrieve any data from the knowledge base. To only run the Claude model, specify the `bedrock_claude_model` tool in the `selected_tools` parameter:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
  "parameters": {
    "question": "Translate last answer into Chinese?",
    "selected_tools": ["bedrock_claude_model"]
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The agent will run the tools sequentially in the new order defined in `selected_tools`. 

Author: ```suggestion
The agent will run the tools one by one in the new order defined in `selected_tools`. 
```

                "prompt": "\n\nHuman:You are a professional product recommendation engine. You will always recommend product based on the given context. If you don't have enough context, you will ask Human to provide more information. If you don't see any related product to recommend, just say we don't have such product. \n\n Context:\n${parameters.product_description_vectordb.output}\n\n${parameters.product_comments_vectordb.output}\n\nHuman:${parameters.question}\n\nAssistant:"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

When you run the agent, the agent will query product description and comment data and then send the query results and the question to the LLM.

To query a specific knowledge base, specify it in `selected_tools`. For example, if the question only relates to product comments, you can retrieve information only from `product_comments_vectordb`:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
  "parameters": {
    "question": "What feature people like the most for Amazon Echo Dot",
    "selected_tools": ["product_comments_vectordb", "MLModelTool"]
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Running queries on an index

> Use a `SearchIndexTool` to run any OpenSearch query on any index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `SearchIndexTool` to run any OpenSearch query on any index.
```

            }
        },
        {
            "type": "MLModelTool",
            "description": "A general tool to answer any question",
            "parameters": {
                "model_id": "your_llm_model_id",
                "prompt": "\n\nHuman:You are a professional data analysist. You will always answer question based on the given context first. If the answer is not directly shown in the context, you will analyze the data and find the answer. If you don't know the answer, just say don't know. \n\n Context:\n${parameters.SearchIndexTool.output:-}\n\nHuman:${parameters.question}\n\nAssistant:"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Run a BM25 query

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
    "parameters": {
        "question": "what's the population increase of Seattle from 2021 to 2023?",
        "index": "test_population_data",
        "query": {
            "query": {
                "match": {
                    "population_description": "${parameters.question}"
                }
            },
            "size": 2,
            "_source": "population_description"
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ### Exposing only the `question` parameter

Author: It looks a bit weird when we put parameters in code font in headings, so I normally avoid code font but here I think it won't read correctly without code font.

      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Now you can run the agent specifying only the `question` parameter:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
    "parameters": {
        "question": "what's the population increase of Seattle from 2021 to 2023?"
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Run a neural search query

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
    "parameters": {
        "question": "what's the population increase of Seattle from 2021 to 2023??",
        "index": "test_population_data",
        "query": {
            "query": {
                "neural": {
                    "population_description_embedding": {
                        "query_text": "${parameters.question}",
                        "model_id": "your_embedding_model_id",
                        "k": 10
                    }
                }
            },
            "size": 2,
            "_source": ["population_description"]
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

To expose the `question` parameter, see [Exposing only the `question` parameter](#exposing-only-the-question-parameter).

### Run a hybrid search query

> Hybrid search combines keyword and neural search to improve search relevance. For more information, see [Hybrid Search]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/hybrid-search/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hybrid search combines keyword and neural search to improve search relevance. For more information, see [Hybrid search]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/hybrid-search/).
```

                "exclude": [
                    "population_description_embedding"
                ]
            },
            "size": 2,
            "query": {
                "hybrid": {
                    "queries": [
                        {
                            "match": {
                                "population_description": {
                                    "query": "${parameters.question}"
                                }
                            }
                        },
                        {
                            "neural": {
                                "population_description_embedding": {
                                    "query_text": "${parameters.question}",
                                    "model_id": "your_embedding_model_id",
                                    "k": 10
                                }
                            }
                        }
                    ]
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

To expose the `question` parameter, see [Exposing only the `question` parameter](#exposing-only-the-question-parameter).

### Natural language query

> The `PPLTool` can translate a natural language query (NLQ) to [PPL]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/sql/ppl/index/) and execute the generated PPL query.

Author: ```suggestion
The `PPLTool` can translate a natural language query (NLQ) to [Piped Processing Language (PPL)]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/sql/ppl/index/) and execute the generated PPL query.
```

#### Setup

Before you start, go to the OpenSearch Dashboards home page, select `Add sample data`, then add `Sample eCommerce orders`.

<!-- vale off -->
#### Step 1: Register an agent with a PPLTool
<!-- vale on -->

The `PPLTool` has the following parameters:

- `model_type` (Enum): `CLAUDE`, `OPENAI`, or `FINETUNE`.
- `execute` (Boolean): If `true`, executes the generated PPL query.

> - `input` (String): You must provide the `index` and `question` as input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `input` (String): You must provide the `index` and `question` as inputs.
```

{
    "name": "Demo agent for NLQ",
    "type": "conversational_flow",
    "description": "This is a test flow agent for NLQ",
    "memory": {
        "type": "conversation_index"
    },
    "app_type": "rag",
    "tools": [
        {
            "type": "PPLTool",
            "parameters": {
                "model_id": "your_ppl_model_id",
                "model_type": "CLAUDE",
                "execute": true,
                "input": "{\"index\": \"${parameters.index}\", \"question\": ${parameters.question} }"
            }
        },
        {
            "type": "MLModelTool",
            "description": "A general tool to answer any question",
            "parameters": {
                "model_id": "your_llm_model_id",
                "prompt": "\n\nHuman:You are a professional data analysist. You will always answer question based on the given context first. If the answer is not directly shown in the context, you will analyze the data and find the answer. If you don't know the answer, just say don't know. \n\n Context:\n${parameters.PPLTool.output:-}\n\nHuman:${parameters.question}\n\nAssistant:"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ### Step 2: Execute the agent with an NLQ

Author: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Run the agent with an NLQ
```

Run the agent:

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/agents/your_agent_id/_execute
{
    "parameters": {
        "question": "How many orders do I have in last week",
        "index": "opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_ecommerce"
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response contains the LLM answer:

Author: ```suggestion
The response contains the answer generated by the LLM:
```
